Add documentation for MCP Registry feature (#24713)
mlflow/mlflow: docs/docs/genai/mcp-registry/connect-to-servers.mdx

---

> title: Connect to Servers

Reviewer: Should this be "Connect to MCP Servers"?

> description: Learn how to create access endpoints, generate connection instructions, and manage tool discovery for MCP servers in the MLflow MCP Registry.

Reviewer: Somewhere in the doc, it should explain why not just rely on server.json remotes? The reason is that organizations may deploy MCP servers internally, change deployment URLs (server.json is immutable), may require the MCP servers to be behind an MCP gateway or proxy in the company, etc.

      4. Pin the endpoint to a specific version or alias.
      5. Click **Create** to save.
    </div>

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="python" label="Python">
    <div class="flex-column">
      Use <APILink fn="mlflow.genai.create_mcp_access_endpoint" />:

      ```python
      import mlflow

      # Pin endpoint to a specific version
      endpoint = mlflow.genai.create_mcp_access_endpoint(
          server_name="io.github.anthropic/brave-search",
          url="https://mcp.example.com/brave-search",
          transport_type="streamable-http",
          server_version="1.0.0",
      )

      # Or pin to an alias (endpoint follows alias as it moves between versions)
      endpoint = mlflow.genai.create_mcp_access_endpoint(
          server_name="io.github.anthropic/brave-search",
          url="https://mcp.example.com/brave-search",
          transport_type="streamable-http",
          server_alias="production",
      )
      ```
    </div>
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Transport Types

| Type | Description |
|------|-------------|
| `streamable-http` | Streamable HTTP transport (recommended). The default when no type is specified. |
| `sse` | Server-Sent Events transport. |

> 
> ### Search and Manage Endpoints
> 
> ```python
> import mlflow
> 
> # List all endpoints for a server
> endpoints = mlflow.genai.search_mcp_access_endpoints(
>     server_name="io.github.anthropic/brave-search",
> )
> 
> for ep in endpoints:
>     print(f"  {ep.url} ({ep.transport_type}) → version {ep.resolved_version}")
> 
> # Update an endpoint
> mlflow.genai.update_mcp_access_endpoint(
>     server_name="io.github.anthropic/brave-search",
>     endpoint_id=endpoint.id,
>     url="https://mcp-v2.example.com/brave-search",
> )
> 
> # Delete an endpoint
> mlflow.genai.delete_mcp_access_endpoint(
>     server_name="io.github.anthropic/brave-search",
>     endpoint_id=endpoint.id,
> )

Reviewer: **🤖 AI Review**

Two copy-paste issues in this snippet:
1. `ep.resolved_version` is an `MCPServerVersion` (or `None`), not a version string — print `ep.resolved_version.version`.
2. `endpoint` is referenced in update/delete but never defined — pick one from `endpoints` first.

```suggestion
import mlflow

# List all endpoints for a server
endpoints = mlflow.genai.search_mcp_access_endpoints(
    server_name="io.github.anthropic/brave-search",
)

for ep in endpoints:
    resolved = ep.resolved_version.version if ep.resolved_version else None
    print(f"  {ep.url} ({ep.transport_type}) → version {resolved}")

endpoint = endpoints[0]

# Update an endpoint
mlflow.genai.update_mcp_access_endpoint(
    server_name="io.github.anthropic/brave-search",
    endpoint_id=endpoint.id,
    url="https://mcp-v2.example.com/brave-search",
)

# Delete an endpoint
mlflow.genai.delete_mcp_access_endpoint(
    server_name="io.github.anthropic/brave-search",
    endpoint_id=endpoint.id,
)
```

### Refresh Tools

If a server's tools change after registration, you can re-discover them using the Python SDK. The UI also provides an **Auto-discover tools** button on the version detail page that displays the equivalent Python snippet to run.

Use <APILink fn="mlflow.genai.refresh_mcp_server_version_tools" />:

```python
import mlflow

# Refresh tools from the live server
updated_version = mlflow.genai.refresh_mcp_server_version_tools(
    name="io.github.anthropic/brave-search",
    version="1.0.0",
)

for tool in updated_version.tools or []:
    print(f"  Tool: {tool.name} — {tool.description}")

# Preview discovered tools without saving (dry run)
preview = mlflow.genai.refresh_mcp_server_version_tools(
    name="io.github.anthropic/brave-search",
    version="1.0.0",
    dry_run=True,
)

# Provide auth headers for protected servers
updated_version = mlflow.genai.refresh_mcp_server_version_tools(
    name="io.github.anthropic/brave-search",
    version="1.0.0",
    mcp_server_access_headers={"Authorization": "Bearer <token>"},
)
```

:::note

> Tool discovery requires the `mcp` extra: `pip install 'mlflow[mcp]'`. Discovered tools are a point-in-time snapshot — they are not automatically kept in sync with the live server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tool discovery requires the `mcp` extra: `pip install 'mlflow[mcp]'`. Discovered tools are a point-in-time snapshot. They will not be automatically kept in sync with the live server.
```
